# Translation Guide

- First add the library for gettext:
`import gettext`

- Then these lines, in this case we write "socli" because it was on the "socly.py" file.

```
    gettext.bindtextdomain('socli', 'locale') #('') #('App domain', 'Directory of translation files')
    gettext.textdomain('socli')
    _ = gettext.gettext
```

- Add the function '_("string")' to every string translatable. For example:

	Before:
    `print_warning("No results found...")`

    After:
    `print_warning(_("No results found..."))`

- If this is not your first time adding the gettext (the _("string")) functions update the LANG folders with this command:
  `msgmerge -U locale/es_AR/LC_MESSAGES/socli.po socli.pot`

  Else skip that step.

- If the original files where modified, in this case, socli.py. It's necess

	- Make the .pot template file after adding all the _() functions.

    `pygettext -d socli socli.py`

	- Fill the gaps in the .pot file just made. Author and language of the team NOT THE TRANSLATIONS.

- For every new language made make a folder with the structure locale/**LANG**/LC_MESSAGES/socli.po. **LANG** is the language code ISO 639-1.
  For example: (spanish(es) from Argentina(AR)):
  `cp socli.pot locale/es_AR/LC_MESSAGES/socli.po`

- Fill the gaps in the .po file just made. Author and language of the team doing the translation.

- Move inside the language folder that you wish to translate
  In this case our is:
  `cd locale/es_AR/LC_MESSAGES/`

- Fill the gaps in the .po file with the actual tranlation.
  You will see something like this:
```
  #: socli.py:476             <-------- File and line number of the original string
  msgid ": Displays the search result of the query" <-------- Original string, generated by the pygettext command.
  msgstr ": Muestra el resultado de busqueda de una consulta" <-------- Translation of that string.
```

- Make the .mo file for the translation using msgfmt.
  `msgfmt -o socli.mo socli.po`